Welcome to the SmartGWT Demo PhoneBook Application
Author: Thomas J. Holmes Jr.    2012

Technology Stack:
MySQL 5.1
Maven 2.2.1
SmartGWT 2.5
GWT 2.4
Spring 3.1.3
Hibernate 4.1.4

This application is a personal project meant to demonstrate the CRUD abilities
of a SmartGWT/Spring/Maven project with GWT-RPC.  I know a Phone-Book isn't
super exciting, and it's certainly not meant to replace any other online Contacts
application.  I use Google GMail and Contacts myself.

I worked on my first SmartGWT/Ant with GWT-RPC project back in 2009
and that was a learning experience. When you go back and look at it, you wish you had done a
lot of things differently.  That may be a future project here.
The second SmartGWt project is with my current client, and they are doing things
a little differently with this application.
I think both of my SmartGWT projects have things to offer, so I am using some ideas from
both ... just the ideas, but not the actual code.

Lessons learned:
1) With Spring and Autowired, this explanation is about the LifeCycle of a Servlet, and
when it is created/destroyed with a web-application and how it relates to Autowired
and the Spring ApplicationContext file.  I don't want to go into too much detail here
since that information can be found on the Internet.
But, if you look at class "com.opensource.phonebook.server.rpc.BaseRPC" this is the new super
class that I start all of my GWT-RPC's with.  This is the BETTER way of handling the application
context from spring and actually being able to Autowire Services and Daos into the application.

2) My first project used DTO's and Entities and we had to work out a mapping scheme
to from Entity to DTO and DTO to Entity.  The second SmartGWT project did the same thing,
we had to use a mapping to do the same thing.   I found this tedious and just decided to use
Entities and DTOs at all.  However, I soon found out that with GWT-RPC and Serialization with Hibernate
that some objects like PersistentSet are NOT serializable and that broke my application.
There were other choices such as Gilead (formerly hibernate4gwt), or DTO to Entity mapping.
I opted for this choice since it was more obvious and not a black-box like Gilead.

3) I've learned a lot more about GWT-RPC from my last two SmartGWT projects.
With this framework, I think I'll be able to build off of this app into much larger apps.

Refactoring:
No originally created project is going to be perfect from the beginning, and anyone who tells
you that either doesn't or, or isn't being honest.  Refactoring happens all the time, and is for
the betterment of the code.  Redundant or unneccessary code should be removed.  

1) One of the things I want to do once this project is done, is look for redundant code.
That is code cut-and-pasted from one place to another.  Maybe using some abstracts classes
that i can build off of.

2) I want to go through the code and look for anything hard-coded.
Sometimes these may seem trivial, but then you start using the same string over and over
again, and if you mis-type something, that can lead to bugs.  So, i want to make sure
I change anything that might be hard-coded to use Constants instead.

3) Once this project is done, deployment to a new platform should be easy, but I am not there yet.
I want to be able to run a SQL script to create the database and tables, etc.
Then I should be able to just drop a war in place, and it should just work.
This is something I will be testing over and over again.

New Features:
1) The login form in the middle should get a clear button to clear the username/password.
2) The header on the login form needs to be much nice, and that is coming.
3) When the user signs up, and creates a new account, the following needs to be done:
    a) The password needs to be masked
    b) There needs to be a re-typed password textbox
    c) I want to have an alternate email
    d) I want to add a BirthDate to the signup form
    e) I want to add a clear button to this form
    f) I want to add a header to the top of this form
    g) I want to add red asterisks (*) to the form for what is required
    h) I want to adjust the Save button so it is more locally centered.
4) On the User Header, that code needs to be re-factored into a widget to be re-used.
5) I want to create a log-out button so the app knows that the user has logged out and 
removed his cookies.
6) I want to adjust the contact form on the Contact Tab
    a) I want to add a clear button to this form
    b) I want to add a header to the top of this form
    c) I want to add red asterisks (*) to the form for what is required
    d) I want to adjust the Save button so it is more locally centered.

    
My email is thomas.j.holmes@gmail.com
And I hope you find this app useful.
